a new chapter in history
the car towards zero impact
twinair a new family of engines
intelligent with powers from 65 to 105
horses also in bi fuel version
methane with 80 horses with performance
brilliants and consumption and emissions
extremely reduced
twinair designed expressly with the
multiair offers all the advantages of a
revolutionary invention that exploits the
electronic management technologies for
check the quantity of air sucked in
cylinder for cylinder and cycle for cycle
today its evolution the system
multiair 2 allows an additional
efficiency improvement e
driving pleasure
the extreme downsizing from which the
twinair guarantees equal performance
up to 30 percent less consumption
and co2 emissions
the methane version allows
a further reduction insuring to
at the same time excellent performance
two-cylinder fractionation allows
both to have a unitary displacement
optimal to maximize efficiency
thermodynamics is a substantial one
reduction of mechanical friction
the adoption of a countershaft of
balancing is a double flywheel
mass ensure maximum comfort
on the turbo versions the twinair provides
surprising performance higher than
naturally displacement engines
decidedly greater
integration of the exhaust manifold
in the cylinder head reduces
further consumption in use
oriented to maximum performance
the adoption of technologies such as start and
stop smart alternator oil pump a
variable displacement stopped at the
electronic control increases
further overall efficiency
of twinair
the specific power that reaches 120
liter horses is among the highest of the
category as well as the provision of
torque at low speeds
this allows you to get a great deal
performance feeling in all
terms of use
a car with the twinair engine is
funny
sportswear and is already available in
euro version 6
moreover the new engine opens the way to
further developments such as mating
to hybrid technologies to which it is well suited
for characteristics and dimensions
a synthesis of technology and respect for
the environment they allowed to
twinair to win numerous awards among
which the prestigious recognition
international engine of the year 2011
twinair an extraordinary result that
courage and innovation rewards
vision of the fiat group